CAPTIONING MADE
POSSIBLE BY WARNER BROS.
GET UP, GIRL!
GET!
WHOA!
Woman: LITTLE JOSEY!
COME ON IN. LET'S
GET YOU CLEANED UP!
WHOA!
YAH!
HYAH!
Little Josey: PA!
NO!
JOSEY!
NO! JOSEY!
NO!
JOSEY!
Little Josey: PA!
PA!
NO!
ASHES TO ASHES...
DUST TO DUST.
LORD GIVES...
LORD TAKES AWAY.
NAME'S ANDERSON.
BLOODY BILL'S WHAT THEY CALL ME.
REDLEGS?
YOU'LL FIND THEM UP IN KANSAS.
THEY'RE WITH THE UNION.
AND WE'RE GOING UP THERE
AND SET THINGS ARIGHT.
I'LL BE COMIN' WITH YOU.
YAH!
ALL THAT A FELLA HAS TO DO
IS RIDE INTO THAT UNION
CAMP DOWN THERE...
RAISE HIS RIGHT HAND,
AND SWEAR AS SUCH TO BE
LOYAL TO THE UNITED STATES.
THEN HE CAN TAKE
UP HIS HORSE AGAIN
AND GO HOME.
THEY'RE GIVING US
FULL AMNESTY, THEN?
YEP.
EVERYONE ELSE
HAS DONE IT BUT US.
WE ARE THE LAST OF THE HOLDOUTS.
I'M GOING IN, BOYS.
I'VE HAD ENOUGH.
JOSEY.
BETTER GO WITH THEM, BOY.
ARE YOU COMING WITH US, JOSEY?
I RECKON NOT, FLETCHER.
THEY'LL BE COMING
AFTER YOU, JOSEY.
YEAH.
THERE'S NOWHERE YOU CAN
GO TO GET AWAY FROM THEM.
I RECKON THAT'S TRUE.
WELL...
GOOD LUCK, JOSEY.
PUT THE RIFLE DOWN, TOO.
I'LL BE NEEDING THIS
FOR SQUIRRELS AND SUCH.
PUT IT DOWN.
YOU'RE KIND OF
YOUNG, AIN'T YOU, KID,
TO BE RIDING WITH THIS RABBLE?
WHO YOU CALLING RABBLE,
YOU BLUE SCUM-BELLY?
HELL,
WE SHOWED THESE BOYS ANYWAY.
LEE MIGHT'VE HAD TO SURRENDER,
BUT WE DIDN'T, DID WE?
SHUT UP, KID.
YES, SIR. YOU SHOWED US.
NOW, GET IN LINE
BEFORE I KICK YOU SO HARD,
YOU'LL BE WEARING
YOUR ASS FOR A HAT.
HERE'S THE MAN
YOU ASKED FOR, SIR.
AH, FLETCHER, GOOD TO SEE YOU!
SENATOR.
WELL DONE.
THANK YOU.
WHAT THE HELL IS THIS
REDLEG DOING HERE?
YOU SAID REGULAR
FEDERAL AUTHORITIES
WOULD BE HANDLING THIS.
CAPTAIN TERRILL
IS THE REGULAR
FEDERAL AUTHORITY NOW.
CAPTAIN TERRILL IS A
BLOODTHIRSTY SON OF A BITCH!
HE'S A LOOTER AND A PILLAGER.
HE'S THE WORST ENEMY
THOSE MEN HAVE GOT!
OHH...
WAR'S OVER.
OUR SIDE WON THE WAR.
NOW WE MUST BUSY
OURSELVES WINNING THE PEACE.
FLETCHER, THERE'S
AN OLD SAYING...
TO THE VICTORS
BELONG THE SPOILS.
THERE'S ANOTHER
OLD SAYING, SENATOR...
DON'T PISS DOWN MY BACK
AND TELL ME IT'S RAINING.
WHICH SIDE IS THIS
MAN ON, SENATOR?
EASY, TERRILL. HE BROUGHT
THEM ALL IN, DIDN'T HE?
ALL BUT ONE.
WHO'S THAT?
JOSEY WALES.
CAPTAIN TERRILL,
I WANT YOU TO CURRYCOMB
THE COUNTRYSIDE.
YOU BEAT THE BRUSH
AND ROOT OUT EVERYTHING DISLOYAL
FROM A SHANGHAI
ROOSTER TO A DURHAM COW.
NOW, WE'VE GOT TO
CLEAN UP THIS COUNTRY.
NOW, YOU TAKE FIVE MEN
AND GO UP THERE
AND GET JOSEY WALES.
CAPTAIN "REDLEGS"
TERRILL AND FIVE MEN
AGAINST JOSEY WALES, EH?
WE STOPPED THOSE BUSHWHACKERS
PRETTY GOOD DURING THE WAR.
FLETCHER,
YOU GO WITH
CAPTAIN TERRILL, THEN.
BRING IN THIS DAMN
INSURRECTIONIST REBEL.
NOW, HERE.
HERE'S THE MONEY FOR
BRINGING DOWN THE OTHERS.
AND THERE'LL BE
MORE FOR JOSEY WALES.
I'VE HAD ENOUGH OF
YOUR MONEY, SENATOR.
LET WALES BE.
LET ME BE.
I'M FINISHED WITH YOU.
ALL RIGHT,
I WANT YOU MEN TO
RAISE YOUR RIGHT HANDS.
WHAT FOR?
SO AS YOU CAN PLEDGE
LOYALTY TO THE UNION.
HELL.
PLEDGE LOYALTY TO THE UNION.
YOU OUGHT TO HAVE US
TURN AROUND AND BEND OVER.
RAISE YOUR RIGHT HANDS
SO I CAN TAKE YOUR OATH.
"I PLEDGE
"THAT I WILL BE LOYAL
TO THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA."
I PLEDGE THAT I WILL BE LOYAL
TO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
"THAT I WILL," UH...
LET'S SEE...
"I WILL ABIDE BY ITS LAW,
THAT I WILL NEVER
BEAR ARMS AGAINST IT."
THAT I WILL ABIDE BY ITS LAW,
THAT I WILL NEVER
BEAR ARMS AGAINST IT.
"AND RECOGNIZE..."
"THAT IT IS ONE NATION."
AND RECOGNIZE
THAT IT IS ONE NATION.
I AIN'T DOING IT.
COME ON, KID. LET'S GET
THIS OVER WITH, DAMN IT.
I'VE BEEN THINKING.
I THINK IT'S THEM WHO
OWES AN APOLOGY.
"AND I FURTHER SWEAR
THAT THOUGH I BE MURDEROUS..."
AND I FURTHER SWEAR...
LOOK! THAT'S JOSEY.
"VERMINOUS, LYING,
MISSOURI SCUM!"
WHOA!
DAMN YOU, SENATOR.
YOU PROMISED ME
THOSE MEN WOULD
BE DECENTLY TREATED.
THEY WERE DECENTLY TREATED.
THEY WERE DECENTLY FED,
AND THEN THEY
WERE DECENTLY SHOT.
THESE MEN ARE COMMON
OUTLAWS, NOTHING MORE.
RUN FOR IT,
FLETCHER! IT'S A TRAP!
OHH!
JOSEY, WE BEST BE ON OUR WAY.
GET MOVING, BOY!
THEY'LL BE COMING AFTER US.
WE GOT TO TAKE TO THAT BRUSH!
YOU GET GOING!
YOU CAN'T GET THEM ALL, JOSEY.
THAT'S A FACT.
HOW COME YOU'RE
DOING THIS, THEN?
'CAUSE I'VE GOT
NOTHING BETTER TO DO.
FLETCHER WAS IN WITH
THEM. IT WAS A TRAP!
FLETCHER?
NEVER WOULD'VE FIGURED THAT.
YOU DUMB KID.
JOSEY, I GOT TO
TELL YOU SOMETHING.
I'M SCARED OF DYING, JOSEY!
MOVE OUT!
YOU'RE GOING
AFTER HIM AFTER ALL.
FLETCHER, I'M GIVING
YOU A COMMISSION.
HOUND THIS WALES
TO KINGDOM COME.
HOUND HIM, SENATOR?
A MAN LIKE WALES
LIVES BY THE FEUD.
'CAUSE OF WHAT
YOU DID HERE TODAY,
I'VE GOT TO KILL THAT MAN.
WELL, HE'LL HAVE
TO RUN FOR IT NOW,
AND HELL IS WHERE HE'S HEADED.
HE'LL BE WAITING
THERE FOR US, SENATOR.
DON'T HOLD BACK
ACCOUNT OF ME. I CAN RIDE.
I AIN'T HOLDING BACK
ACCOUNT OF YOU,
YOU THICK-HEADED GRASSHOPPER.
FIRST PLACE, IF WE
RIDE OUT IN THE OPEN,
THERE'S ENOUGH POSSES
OVER SOUTH MISSOURI
TO START ANOTHER WAR.
AND IF WE TRY RIDING
INSTEAD OF THINKING,
WELL, WE'LL END UP
HANGING BY A ROPE BY NIGHTFALL.
WHERE WE HEADED?
INDIAN NATIONS.
IT'S A GOOD PLACE TO HOLE UP
AND GET YOU HEALED UP.
THEN WE GO BACK, GET FLETCHER?
RIGHT, BOY.
THEN WE GO BACK
AND GET FLETCHER.
SOME RIDERS COMING UP BEHIND US.
GET...
GET DOWN HERE, BOY.
LAY ACROSS HIS NECK.
KEEP HIM DOWN.
YOU HEAR ME, BOY?
NOW, IF YOU SEE ME GET UP,
YOU STAY THERE, UNDERSTAND?
IF YOU HEAR SOME SHOOTING
AND ME HEADED BACK NORTH,
GET BACK ON THAT HORSE
AND HEAD SOUTH NOW, YOU HEAR?
WHOA... WHOA.
ALL RIGHT. YOU CAN
LET HIM UP NOW, BOY.
LET HIM UP.
GET UP, GOD DAMN IT.
WHUPPED 'EM AGAIN,
DIDN'T WE, JOSEY?
WHUPPED 'EM AGAIN, BOY.
10 YEARS I BEEN
FERRYING KANSAS REDLEGS,
UNION CAVALRY,
MISSOURI GUERRILLAS...
YOU NAME IT.
MAD DOGS, THEM GUERRILLAS.
YOU LOOK SIDEWAYS AT 'EM...
THEY KILL YOU!
SOUND LIKE HARD MEN
TO DO BUSINESS WITH.
YOU BET.
IN MY LINE OF WORK,
YOU GOT TO BE
ABLE EITHER TO SING
THE BATTLE HYMN OF THE REPUBLIC
OR DIXIE WITH
EQUAL ENTHUSIASM...
DEPENDING UPON PRESENT COMPANY.
CAN'T SAY AS I
BLAME YOU FOR THAT.
ONLY GOOD BUSINESS
TO PLAY IT SAFE.
THANK GOD THEY ALL
BEEN DISARMED NOW,
EXCEPT FOR A FEW
OF THE NASTIEST ONES
WHO THEY'RE BUSY RUNNING DOWN.
WELL, WHERE I'M GOING,
THEY KNOW HOW TO
HANDLE THAT KIND.
WHERE YOU HEADED?
I'M GOING TO PLY MY
WARES DOWN IN TEXAS.
TEXAS, HUH?
MM-HMM.
HOW MUCH FOR THE FERRY RIDE?
10 CENT.
BY COINCIDENCE,
I HAPPEN TO HAVE
A BOTTLE OF THIS
REMARKABLE ELIXIR
I COULD LET YOU HAVE
FOR THAT EXACT AMOUNT.
♪ I WISH I WAS IN THE
LAND OF THE COTTON ♪
♪ OLD TIMES THERE
IS NOT FORGOTTEN ♪
♪ LOOK AWAY, LOOK AWAY ♪
♪ LOOK AWAY, DIXIE LAND ♪
HOWDY.
HOWDY THERE.
SIM CARSTAIRS IS THE NAME.
MR...
FIGURED WE MIGHT GIVE YOU
A BIT OF FERRYING BUSINESS.
OH, PLEASURE.
YOU KNOW, BILL QUANTRILL
USED THIS FERRY ALL THE TIME.
GOOD FRIEND OF MINE.
WHAT DO YOU GOT OVER THERE?
OH, JUST THE STORE WITH
GRANNIE HAWKINS UP THERE.
I'LL TELL YOU WHAT.
WE'LL JUST ALL AMBLE OVER
TO THAT STORE.
WE'LL RIDE. HE HAS THE CRAMP.
STRANGER, YOU'RE IN LUCK.
I HAPPEN TO HAVE THE
PERFECT THING FOR CRAMP.
WE'LL NEED HALF A SIDE OF BACON,
10 POUNDS OF BEEF JERKY,
20 POUNDS OF HORSE GRAIN.
AND WHEN WE GET OVER THERE,
THERE WON'T BE ANY
NEED FOR YOU TO GO INSIDE.
YOU CAN JUST TALK THROUGH
THE DOOR TO OLD GRANNIE
AND TELL HER WE NEED A
LOT OF CLEAN BANDAGES
AND A BOILED POULTICE
FOR A BULLET WOUND...
IN A HURRY.
COME ON.
SO YOU'LL BE JOSEY WALES.
HOW MIGHT YOU
KNOW THAT, GRANNIE?
SOLDIERS WERE
HERE LOOKING FOR YOU
ABOUT TWO HOURS AGO.
I WAS GOING TO MENTION THAT
WHEN I GOT THE CHANCE.
THEY SAY YOU KILLED
YOUR OWN MEN.
THOSE LYING BLUE SCUM-BELLIES.
Grannie: THEY SAY YOU'RE A
HARD PUT, DESPERATE MAN.
THEY'RE GOING TO
HEEL AND HIDE YOU
TO A BARN DOOR.
YOU KNOW WHAT I SAY?
WHAT'S THAT?
I SAY THAT BIG TALK'S
WORTH DOODLEY-SQUAT.
THEM POULTICES BE
LACED WITH FEATHER MOSS
AND MUSTARD ROOT.
MIND YOU DROP WATER
ON THEM OCCASIONAL
AND KEEP THEM DAMP.
MUCH OBLIGED, GRANNIE.
YOU CAN PAY ME WHEN YOU
SEE ME AGAIN, JOSEY WALES.
I RECKON SO.
♪ THERE'S BUCKWHEAT
CAKES AND INJUN BATTER ♪
♪ MAKES YOU FAT
OR A LITTLE FATTER ♪
♪ LOOK AWAY, LOOK AWAY ♪
♪ LOOK AWAY, DIXIE LAND ♪
THAT...
THAT SURE IS A SWEET
SOUND TO THE EARS.
NOW, WOULDN'T YOU
SAY SO, MR. WALES?
YOUR YOUNG FRIEND
COULD USE SOME HELP.
THIS IS IT. $1.00 A BOTTLE.
IT WORKS WONDERS ON WOUNDS.
WORKS WONDERS ON JUST
ABOUT EVERYTHING, HUH?
IT CAN DO MOST ANYTHING.
HOW IS IT WITH STAINS?
THERE WE GO.
COME ON.
YEAH.
DISMOUNT.
DISEMBARK, GENTLEMEN.
Soldier: BRING THAT BOAT BACK!
BRING IT BACK!
BRING THAT BARGE BACK!
WHUPPED 'EM AGAIN, JOSEY.
OOH, HEY... HEY,
THEY'RE HOLLERING
FOR ME TO COME OVER.
I CAN'T HOLD ON.
BUT I'LL HOLD ON
UNTIL YOU FELLAS
GET OUT OF SIGHT.
ALL RIGHT?
I'LL MAKE DO SOMETHING'S WRONG.
PULL, LEMUEL, PULL.
I'LL MAKE DO SOMETHING'S WRONG
UNTIL YOU GET GOING.
I WISH YOU ALL LOTS OF LUCK!
PULL, LEMUEL, PULL.
♪ OH, I WISH I WAS IN
THE LAND OF COTTON... ♪
HE AIN'T GOING TO
HOLD UP NO FERRY.
HE'S GONNA BRING
THAT CAVALRY OVER
FAST AS HE CAN.
YEAH.
RECKON THERE'S A NICE REWARD
OUT FOR US ABOUT NOW.
♪ MINE EYES HAVE
SEEN THE GLORY ♪
♪ OF THE COMING OF THE LORD ♪
♪ HE IS TRAMPLING
OUT THE VINTAGE... ♪
WE'VE GOT HIM NOW.
WE'LL GET THESE TWO FIRST,
THEN WE'LL GET THE OTHERS.
WHAT OTHERS?
WALES AND THE KID
ARE THE LAST ONES.
NO.
TEXAS IS FULL OF REBELS.
LOTS OF WORK TO
DO DOWN IN TEXAS.
WE GET JOSEY WALES, AND IT ENDS.
DOING RIGHT AIN'T GOT NO END.
WE BEST HURRY ON, JOSEY.
THEY'D CATCH UP TO US
BY THE END OF THE DAY.
JUDGING BY THESE
TRACKS, THERE'S MAYBE...
40, 50 HORSES AHEAD OF US.
WHAT WE'VE GOT TO DO
IS SPACE SOME TIME
BETWEEN THEM AND US.
WELL, WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO?
STAY RIGHT HERE.
♪ GLORY... ♪
WELCOME.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
COME ABOARD.
HOWDY.
YEAH, PULL, LEMUEL.
HE'S STILL THERE.
STILL THERE?
WHAT IN HELL'S HE
THINK HE'S DOING?
DON'T KNOW.
SOME OF YOU MEN GET DOWN THERE
AND PREPARE TO FIRE.
CAPTAIN REDLEGS...
I ADVISE YOU TO TURN BACK.
YOU CAN CATCH HIM LATER.
TURN BACK?
ARE YOU CRAZY?
HE'S GONNA TRY TO
PICK US OFF ONE BY ONE.
HE'LL NEVER DO IT.
AT BEST, HE'LL GET
TWO OR THREE UP FRONT.
I ADVISE YOU TO
TURN BACK, CAPTAIN.
THEY COMIN'.
DO YOU REALLY THINK
YOU CAN SHOOT ALL THOSE MEN DOWN
BEFORE THEY SHOOT YOU?
OH, NO, NO, MR. JOSEY WALES.
THERE IS SUCH A
THING IN THIS COUNTRY
CALLED JUSTICE.
WELL, MR. CARPETBAGGER,
WE GOT SOMETHING
IN THIS TERRITORY...
CALLED A MISSOURI BOAT RIDE.
WATCH OUT FOR THAT HORSE!
GET THAT HORSE OUT THERE!
FLETCHER, BACK IT UP!
BACK IT UP!
YOU STUPID...
STOP! WHOA!
HA HA HA!
GOD ALMIGHTY!
WATCH OUT FOR THAT HORSE!
WATCH OUT!
IS IT BAD, JOSEY?
IT'S BAD.
DON'T LOOK AT IT, BOY.
JUST THINK.
THINK A GOOD FEELING NOW.
IF'N I DON'T MAKE IT, JOSEY,
I WANT YOU TO KNOW...
I'M PROUDER THAN A GAME
ROOSTER TO HAVE RID WITH YOU.
YOU ARE A GAME ROOSTER, BOY.
NOW SHUT UP.
YOU CAN MAKE IT
WITHOUT ME, JOSEY.
HERE.
TAKE A LITTLE DRINK OF THIS.
THIS HERE
LINSEY-WOOLSEY SHIRT I GOT
THAT ALL YOU BOYS WORE...
WE DIDN'T HAVE NO MA,
SO... PA DID ALL THE FANCY
NEEDLEWORK FOR ME.
TOLD ME NOT TO TELL NO ONE.
IMAGINE A GROWN MAN
DOING THAT FOR HIS OWN KID?
HE SANG A LITTLE SONG
WHILE HE SEWED IT.
YOU... YOU KNOW ROSE
OF ALABAMA, JOSEY?
♪ THE RIVER ROLLED ♪
♪ THE CRICKET SANG,
THE LIGHTNING BUG ♪
♪ HE FLASHED HIS WING ♪
♪ AND LIKE A ROPE ♪
♪ MY ARMS I FLING
'ROUND ROSE OF ALABAMA ♪
♪ OH, BROWN ROSIE ♪
♪ ROSE OF ALABAMA ♪
♪ A SWEET TOBACCO POSEY ♪
♪ IS THE ROSE OF ALABAMIE ♪
YOU JUST DO THAT, COUSIN.
YOU BRING THAT OLD
PISTOL RIGHT OUT.
WE GOT HIM, LIGE.
IT'S HIM, ABE! IT'S HIM!
WE GOT THE JOSEY WALES, ABE.
I SEEN HIM RIDE SIDE-BY-SIDE
WITH BLOODY BILL, ABE.
WE GOT REWARD MONEY COMIN'.
WATCH IT, ABE.
HE'S MEANER THAN A RATTLER
AND TWICE AS FAST
WITH THEM PISTOLS.
YOU'RE A BUSHAWAG,
AIN'T YOU, JOSEY WALES?
I TELL YOU WHAT.
MOVE ON BACK. MOVE ON BACK!
WATCH HIM, ABE.
I SEEN HIM DO SOME THINGS.
SHUT UP, LIGE.
NOW... MR. JOSEY WALES,
I'D JUST AS SOON
AS SHOOT YOU NOW,
EXCEPT IT'D BE HARDER
TO DRAG YOUR BODY
THROUGH THE BRUSH
TO GET OUR POUND PRICE.
SHOOT HIM NOW, ABE.
SHUT UP, LIGE.
NOW, MOVE YOUR LEFT HAND DOWN...
AND UNBUCKLE THAT PISTOL BELT.
MAKE IT NICE AND SLOW
SO I CAN COUNT THE
HAIRS ON THAT HAND.
THERE.
SEE, LIGE.
YOU PULL HIS TEETH,
HE'S HARMLESS AS A HEEL HOUND.
ALWAYS WANTED TO FACE OUT
ONE OF THESE BIG PISTOL FIGHTERS
THEY RAISE ALL THE FUSS ABOUT.
ALL IN THE WAY YOU HANDLE THEM.
ABE, WATCH OUT.
HE'S PROBABLY GOT
ANOTHER PISTOL...
SHUT UP, LIGE.
CALL BENNY BACK
THERE... ON A HORSE.
BENNY, COME UP!
WE GOT US THE JOSEY WALES!
♪ OH, BROWN ROSIE,
THE ROSE OF ALABAMIE ♪
WHO IS THAT?
♪ SWEET TOBACCO POSEY... ♪
JUST A BOY WITH A FEVER.
♪ THE ROSE OF ALABAMIE ♪
TELL HIM TO SHUT UP.
♪ SWEET TOBACCO POSEY... ♪
OH.
PA? IS THAT YOU, PA?
IT AIN'T YOUR PA!
NOW SHUT UP!
PA, I GOT THE GOLD
RIGHT HERE, PA.
WHAT GOLD IS HE TALKING ABOUT?
THERE'S NO GOLD. HE'S CRAZY.
THE GOLD ME AND JOSEY
ROBBED FROM THE BANK, PA.
LIGE, TAKE A LOOK
UNDER THAT THERE BLANKET.
I GOT IT RIGHT HERE.
THOUGHT YOU COULD USE SOME HELP.
YOU GET THOSE HOLES A-LEAKIN',
I'M GOING TO WHOMP YOU
WITH A KNOTTED PLOW LINE.
THEY AIN'T, HONEST.
I FEEL AS PERT
AS A RUTTIN' BUCK.
GOOD.
'CAUSE I AIN'T HAULING YOU
ALL OVER HELL'S CREATION
DRIBBLING BLOOD
OVER HALF OF MISSOURI.
WISH WE HAD TIME
TO BURY THEM FELLAS.
HELL WITH THEM FELLAS.
BUZZARDS GOT TO EAT...
SAME AS WORMS.
A REAL FROG STRANGLER.
10, 20 MORE MILES
BEFORE WE'LL BE
SAFE IN THE NATIONS.
THERE'S CAVALRY BETWEEN
US AND THE NATIONS.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
WAIT TILL THEY BED DOWN,
THEN WALK THROUGH QUIET.
HERE. HAVE SOME BEEF JERKY.
DON'T SWALLOW
NOTHING BUT THE JUICE.
I'M GOING TO GO HAVE A LOOK-SEE.
FEEL ALL RIGHT?
I FEEL REAL GOOD, JOSEY.
WE GOT 'EM WHUPPED.
JOSEY, I WANT TO THANK YOU.
FOR WHAT?
SAVING MY LIFE.
FORGET ABOUT THAT.
YOU KNOW SOMETHING, JOSEY?
I AIN'T SCARED NO MORE.
ALL RIGHT.
WE CAN START WORKING
OUR WAY THROUGH NOW, BOY.
THE RAIN'S GIVING US AN EDG...
THIS BOY WAS BROUGHT UP IN A...
TIME OF BLOOD AND DYIN'
AND NEVER
QUESTIONED A BIT OF IT.
NEVER TURNED HIS BACK
ON HIS FOLKS OR HIS KIND.
I RODE WITH HIM.
I GOT NO COMPLAINTS.
BLUEBELLIES WILL GIVE YOU A...
BETTER BURIAL THAN I CAN, BOY.
HALT!
WHAT'S GOING ON?
COME ON. GET HIM!
HOWDY.
NAME'S JOSEY WALES.
I'VE HEARD OF THAT NAME.
SOME SAID YOU'D
BE HEADED THIS WAY,
AND THEY SAID A
MAN COULD GET RICH
ON REWARD MONEY
IF HE WOULD KILL YOU.
SEEMS LIKE YOU WAS LOOKIN'
TO GAIN SOME MONEY HERE.
ACTUALLY, I WAS
LOOKING TO GAIN AN EDGE.
I THOUGHT YOU MIGHT BE SOMEONE
WHO'D SNEAK UP
BEHIND ME WITH A GUN.
WHERE'D YOU EVER
GET AN IDEA LIKE THAT?
BESIDES, IT AIN'T
SUPPOSED TO BE EASY
TO SNEAK UP BEHIND AN INDIAN.
I'M AN INDIAN, ALL RIGHT,
BUT HERE IN THE NATION,
THEY CALL US THE
CIVILIZED TRIBE.
THEY CALL US CIVILIZED
BECAUSE WE'RE
EASY TO SNEAK UP ON.
WHITE MEN HAVE BEEN
SNEAKING UP ON US
FOR YEARS.
CHEROKEE, HUH?
YEAH.
THEY SNEAKED UP ON US,
AND THEY TOLD US WE
WOULDN'T BE HAPPY HERE.
THEY SAID WE'D BE
HAPPIER IN THE NATIONS.
SO THEY TOOK AWAY OUR LAND...
AND SENT US HERE.
I HAVE A FINE WOMAN...
AND TWO SONS,
BUT THEY ALL DIED
ON THE TRAIL OF TEARS.
AND NOW,
THE WHITE MAN IS
SNEAKING UP ON ME...
AGAIN.
SEEMS LIKE WE CAN'T
TRUST THE WHITE MAN.
YOU BET WE CAN'T.
I WORE THIS, UH... FROCK COAT
IN WASHINGTON, BEFORE THE WAR.
WE WORE THEM
BECAUSE WE BELONGED
TO THE 5 CIVILIZED TRIBES.
WE DRESSED OURSELF
UP LIKE ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
YOU KNOW, WE GOT TO SEE
THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
AND HE SAID...
"BOY, YOU BOYS
SURE LOOK CIVILIZED."
HE CONGRATULATED US,
AND HE GAVE US MEDALS
FOR LOOKING SO CIVILIZED.
WE TOLD HIM
ABOUT HOW OUR
LAND HAD BEEN STOLEN
AND OUR PEOPLE WERE DYING.
WHEN WE FINISHED,
HE SHOOK OUR HANDS
AND SAID,
"ENDEAVOR TO PERSEVERE."
THEY STOOD US IN A LINE...
JOHN JUMPER, CHILI McINTOSH,
BUFFALO HUMP,
AND, UH, JIM POCKMARK, AND ME.
I'M LONE WATIE.
THEY TOOK OUR PICTURES,
AND THE NEWSPAPER SAID,
"INDIANS VOW TO
ENDEAVOR TO PERSEVERE."
WE THOUGHT ABOUT
IT FOR A LONG TIME.
ENDEAVOR TO PERSEVERE.
AND WHEN WE HAD THOUGHT
ABOUT IT LONG ENOUGH,
WE DECLARED WAR ON THE UNION.
SERGEANT SAID
THIS KID TRIED TO RIDE
THROUGH THEIR CAMP.
THEY GOT HIM.
THEY DID, DID THEY?
MM-HMM.
THEY'VE HAD MEN ON
GUARD HERE NIGHT AND DAY.
NO WAY WALES COULD'VE
GOTTEN THROUGH
TO THE NATIONS.
WHERE THE HELL ARE
YOU GOING, FLETCHER?
I'M HEADING INTO
THE INDIAN NATIONS.
WHY DON'T YOU
STAY HERE, REDLEGS?
WALES MAY BE BACK
IN A YEAR OR TWO.
WHEN WE GET TO THE NATIONS,
I WANT YOU MEN TO FAN OUT.
$5,000 TO THE ONE WHO GETS HIM.
A HORNED TOAD CAN TELL
YOU WHICH WAY TO GO.
I USED TO KNOW THESE
THINGS WHEN I WAS YOUNG.
BUT WHEN I GOT CIVILIZED,
I FORGOT ALL THESE THINGS.
I DIDN'T KNOW WHICH WAY TO GO.
THE HORNED TOAD SAYS
WE SHOULD GO TO MEXICO.
WELL, LONE WATIE...
YOU CAN TAKE YOUR HORNED TOAD
DOWN MEXICO WAY.
I'VE GOT SOME UNFINISHED
BUSINESS IN MISSOURI.
I HEARD, UH, GENERAL JOE SHELBY
AND SOME MEN
REFUSED TO SURRENDER.
THEY'RE GOING DOWN TO MEXICO.
I THINK I'LL JOIN THEM.
SHELBY, HUH?
I DIDN'T KNOW OTHERS
HADN'T SURRENDERED.
I DIDN'T SURRENDER NEITHER,
BUT, UH, THEY TOOK MY HORSE
AND MADE HIM SURRENDER.
THEY HAVE HIM PULLING A
WAGON UP IN KANSAS, I'LL BET.
IF YOU HAVEN'T GOT A HORSE,
WHAT DO YOU PLAN ON
DOING, WALKING TO MEXICO?
NO. THERE'S A TRADING POST
RIGHT NEAR THE CREEK NATION.
THEY GOT HORSES TO TRADE.
YOU HAVE ANY FOOD HERE?
ALL I HAVE IS A PIECE
OF HARD ROCK CANDY.
BUT IT'S NOT FOR EATING.
IT'S JUST FOR LOOKING THROUGH.
ALL RIGHTY.
I'LL GET YOU A HORSE.
WHAT THE HELL YOU GOT THERE?
MUSKRAT.
MUSKRAT? WHAT THE HELL IS THAT?
MUSKRAT?
NO. NO, SIR.
YOU'VE GOT TO COME UP
WITH SOMETHING MORE.
BEAVER?
BEAVER AIN'T NO GOOD NO MORE.
GIVE ME 10 MUSKRAT...
AND 30 BEAVER PELTS,
I'LL GIVE YOU RED CLOTH.
THAT'S A VERY GOOD
BARGAIN FOR YOU.
HERE.
YOU GO HAVE A DRINK
AND THINK ABOUT IT.
SPILLING!
OH...
YOU BRING SOME
DRINK INSIDE, YOU HEAR?
I TELL YA,
THIS JERKY...
PUT IT ON OUR BILL.
WHAT ABOUT THESE COUGAR PELTS?
GOING TO PUT THEM
ON OUR BILL, TOO?
THIS IS WHAT YOU
GIVE THOSE INDIANS.
WHERE'S THE REAL STUFF?
WHAT'LL YOU TAKE FOR THE SQUAW?
SHE AIN'T FOR SALE.
I MEAN, SHE AIN'T MINE.
SHE WORKS HERE.
SEE THAT NOSE SCAR?
HUH?
KNOW WHAT THAT
MEANS TO A CHEYENNE?
ONE TOO MANY BUCKS.
LITTLE SQUAW LIKES
HER BUCKS, HUH?
ZUKIE, YOU PUT HER
ON THE BILL, TOO.
I'LL BE LOOKING FOR A HORSE.
A HORSE?
UH, THE HORSES BELONG
TO THESE GENTLEMEN.
MORE THAN LIKELY, THAT IS,
I'M SURE THEY'D SELL YOU ONE.
UH, LOOK, I GOT SOME BEER.
SOME GOOD-BREWED CHOCK.
IT'S ON THE HOUSE.
DO YOU SUPPOSE THESE GENTLEMEN
WILL BE AVAILABLE
TO DISCUSS BUSINESS AFORE LONG?
NOW GIVE ME A
BUCKET OF THAT CHOCK.
I GOT HIM!
I GOT ME JOSEY WALES.
LUKE, 5,000 GOLD
SIMOLEONS WALKED RIGHT IN.
RIGHT TO US.
Zukie: WAIT A MINUTE.
HE'S IN MY PLACE.
I RECOGNIZED HIM, TOO,
AND I'M DUE AN EVEN SPLIT.
MR. CHAIN-BLUE
LIGHTNIN' HISSELF.
WELL...
THE ONE THAT EVERYONE'S
SO SCARED ABOUT.
YEAH.
WELL, MR. LIGHTNIN',
MOVE A MUSCLE,
TWITCH YOUR FINGER,
AND I'LL SPLATTER YOUR
GUTS ALL OVER THE WALL.
MR. LIGHTNIN',
WHEN I SAY MOVE,
YOU MOVE REAL SLOW,
LIKE 'LASSES IN WINTERTIME.
ALL RIGHT, DROP THAT HAMMER.
NOW, JUST EASE YOUR HANDS DOWN,
TAKE THEM GUNS
OUT, BUTT FIRST...
SO YOU DON'T GET HOLD OF THEM.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND?
NOD, DAMN YOU.
NOW...
EASE THEM PISTOLS OUT.
WELL, LET'S SEE...
YOU SAY THOSE HORSES
BELONG TO THEM
THERE PILGRIMS, HUH?
HOWDY.
I'M GETTING BETTER
SNEAKING UP ON YOU LIKE THIS.
ONLY AN INDIAN CAN
DO SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
THAT'S WHAT I FIGURED.
YOU FIGURED?
ONLY AN INDIAN
COULD DO SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IT'S NOT RIGHT,
THIS DAMN WOMAN DOING
SOMETHING LIKE THIS TO ME.
I USED TO HAVE POWER.
NOW OLD AGE IS
CREEPING UP ON ME.
I THINK IT'S MORE LIKE
OLD HABITS THAN OLD AGE.
WHO THE HELL IS THIS WOMAN?
SHE WAS BACK AT
THE TRADING POST,
GOT IN SOME KIND OF TROUBLE.
SHE'S NOT GOING
TO MEXICO WITH US.
WITH US?
I GOT YOU A HORSE.
YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN NOW.
I'VE SEEN A LOT TODAY.
I'VE SEEN PATROLS
OF SOLDIERS ALL DAY.
EVERYBODY'S LOOKING FOR YOU.
SHE'S NOT GOING WITH US.
SHE SAYS SHE'S NAVAJO,
BUT SHE WAS CAPTURED
BY THE CHEYENNE.
SHE WAS VIOLATED
BY ONE OF THE BUCKS
OF THE ARAPAHOS.
THEIR SIGN IS THE
DIRTY NOSE SIGN.
CHEYENNE CHIEF BLACK CATTLE,
HE FIGURES SHE DID
NOT RESIST ENOUGH.
HELL, OLD MAN, CAN'T
YOU GET HER TO SHUT UP?
ANYWAY, SHE SAYS
WHEN SHE COME TO
THAT TRADING POST,
SHE DIDN'T KNOW
THIS MAN ZUKIE LIMMER
WAS SELLING LIQUOR.
SHE ALSO WANTS YOU TO KNOW
THAT ALTHOUGH HE BEAT HER A LOT,
NOTHING HAPPENED BETWEEN THEM.
AND SHE SAYS YOU
ARE A GREAT WARRIOR
AND THAT SHE SORT
OF BELONGS TO YOU
FOR WHAT YOU DONE FOR HER.
LOOK, YOU TELL HER
I DON'T WANT NOBODY
BELONGING TO ME.
THAT MEAL WAS DAMN GOOD.
I'M GOING TO TAKE
UP TEPEE LIVING
IF IT'S LIKE THIS.
YOU KNOW, SHE THINKS
I'M SOME KIND OF
A CHEROKEE CHIEF.
I WONDER WHERE SHE
EVER GOT THAT IDEA.
CHIEF?
CHIEF, I WAS JUST WONDERING,
I SUPPOSE THAT
MANGY REDBONE HOUND
GOT NO PLACE ELSE TO GO, EITHER.
WELL, YOU MIGHT AS
WELL RIDE ALONG WITH US.
HELL, EVERYBODY ELSE IS.
YAHOO!
WHOO WHOO WHOO!
HEY, YOU...
BUY SOME INDIAN SCALPS?
NASTY HABIT, YOUNG FELLA.
YOU BORN IN A BARN?
Photographer: HOLD
IT... REAL STILL.
THE WHEAT IS FROM KANSAS,
AND THE MOLASSES
COMES FROM MISSOURI.
WELL, SIR, WE'LL DO
WITHOUT MOLASSES.
ANYTHING FROM MISSOURI
HAS A TAINT ABOUT IT.
GRANDMA, YOU GOT
TO TREAD LIGHTLY
NOW WE'RE HERE IN TEXAS.
LOTS OF NICE ELEMENTS
FROM MISSOURI
COMING WEST.
NICE THINGS FROM
MISSOURI DON'T COME WEST,
AND TREADING
LIGHTLY IS NOT MY WAY.
WE'RE KANSAS JAYHAWKERS
AND PROUD OF IT.
Shopkeeper: I KNOW HOW YOU
FEEL. I'M A HOOSIER MYSELF.
I DON'T THINK MUCH
OF HOOSIERS, NEITHER.
YES, FRIENDS, YES.
THIS IS A POSITIVE
REMEDY FOR WEARINESS,
TURGIDITY OF THE BOWELS,
AND, UH...
SAY, YOU'RE AN
INDIAN, AREN'T YOU?
UH, YOU SPEAK ANY ENGLISH?
WELL, SIR,
THIS IS THE VERY BEST THING
FOR THOSE WHO CAN'T
HANDLE THEIR LIQUOR.
WHAT'S IN IT?
I... I DON'T KNOW.
VARIOUS THINGS.
I'M ONLY THE SALESMAN.
YOU DRINK IT.
WHAT'S THAT?
WELL...
WHAT CAN YOU EXPECT
FROM A NONBELIEVER?
THAT OLD LADY DON'T KNOW
THE TROUBLE SHE CAN
GET IN TALKING LIKE THAT.
TOO MANY FOLKS AROUND
HERE WITH THIN SKIN.
LOTS OF SOUTHERN BOYS
BEEN GETTING INTO
TROUBLE HERE IN TEXAS.
COLONEL BAKER
AND CAPTAIN BOB LEE
BEEN FIGHTING OVER
IN FANNIN COUNTY.
BILL LONGLY, REED TAYLOR,
AND ALL THEM TAYLORS
DOWN IN GONZALEZ.
KILLED SIM FIXEN
OVER IN COTTON GIN.
WEIGHTED HIM DOWN WITH LEAD.
I GOT A PICTURE POST CARD OF IT.
HERE. HAVE A LOOK.
JOSEY WALES.
WHAT SAY?
JOSEY WALES... THEY SAY
HE'S COMING INTO TEXAS.
WON'T COME THROUGH HERE, THOUGH.
KILLED 50, 60 MEN.
REGULATORS ARE
ALL OVER THE PLACE
LOOKING FOR HIM.
HOW MUCH FOR ALL THIS STUFF?
$3.00.
I'M SURE THOSE REGULATORS
WOULD PAY PLENTY
TO THE MAN WHO COULD
IDENTIFY JOSEY WALES.
RECKON SO.
AND HOW ABOUT YOU, SIR?
JUST A FEW BOTTLES LEFT.
YOU WON'T REGRET...
OH, MY GOD.
IT'S JOSEY WALES!
JOSEY WALES?
ARE YOU GOING TO
PULL THOSE PISTOLS
OR WHISTLE DIXIE?
I TOLD YOU TO STAY INSIDE!
GODDAMN INDIAN SQUAW!
LET'S GO!
WELCOME TO TEXAS,
MR. LONE WATIE.
I GUESS WE AIN'T GOING TO SEE
THAT LITTLE NAVAJO GIRL AGAIN.
I GUESS NOT.
I KIND OF LIKED HER,
BUT THEN, IT'S ALWAYS LIKE THAT.
LIKE WHAT?
AFTER I GET TO LIKING SOMEONE,
THEY AIN'T AROUND LONG.
I NOTICED WHEN YOU GET
TO DISLIKING SOMEONE,
THEY AIN'T AROUND
FOR LONG, NEITHER.
HOW DID YOU KNOW WHICH
ONE WAS GOING TO SHOOT FIRST?
WELL, THAT ONE IN THE CENTER,
HE HAD A FLAP HOLSTER
AND WAS IN NO ITCHING HURRY.
THE ONE SECOND FROM THE LEFT,
HE HAD SCARED EYES.
HE WASN'T GONNA DO NOTHING.
BUT THAT ONE ON THE FAR LEFT,
HE HAD CRAZY EYES.
FIGURED HIM TO
MAKE THE FIRST MOVE.
HOW ABOUT THE ONE ON THE RIGHT?
NEVER PAID HIM NO MIND.
YOU WERE THERE.
I COULD HAVE MISSED.
IT WAS JOSEY WALES, ALL RIGHT.
SAW HIM HEADING OUT OF TOWN
WITH A RENEGADE INJUN.
I CAN IDENTIFY HIM,
AND I'D CERTAINLY BE GLAD
TO SHARE IN ANY REWARD.
KNEW HIM QUITE WELL, ACTUALLY.
WELL, NOT A HARD MAN TO TRACK.
LEAVES DEAD MEN
WHEREVER HE GOES.
HE'S HEADING NORTH NOW.
RIDING WITH A RENEGADE INDIAN.
HE'S HEADING NORTH NOW,
BUT HE'LL TURN SOUTHWEST,
HEAD FOR MEXICO.
THEN WE'LL TURN SOUTHWEST
AND HEAD FOR MEXICO.
TELL THEM TO HEAD NORTH.
WHAT ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
LOOK AT THOSE BOYS OVER THERE...
TIED-DOWN GUNS...
BOUNTY HUNTERS.
COME OUT OF A WAR,
GOT NO OTHER WAY
TO MAKE A LIVING.
EVERY LAST MOTHER'S SON
WANTS THAT MONEY
YOU GOT ON WALES' HEAD.
YOU AND ME DIDN'T RIDE
ALL THAT WAY FOR THAT.
I DON'T WANT TO HEAR WALES DEAD.
I WANT TO SEE WALES DEAD.
WE'RE HEADING NORTH, MEN.
LET'S RIDE.
THEY'RE FOLLOWING US.
COUPLE OF HORSES.
FAR OFF. MOVING FAST.
I DON'T HEAR NOTHING.
GOT TO BE AN INDIAN
TO KNOW THOSE THINGS.
YEAH.
ALL RIGHT, LET'S TAKE
THEM OUT IN THE SAND.
GLAD YOU STOPPED
ME WHEN YOU DID.
I MIGHT HAVE KILLED HER.
OH, I NOTICED THAT.
SHE GOT SOME SUPPLIES
AND... AND OUR HORSES
AND FOLLOWED US AROUND.
SHE SAID THAT WE WAS
THE ONLY KIN SHE HAD.
YEAH, I'LL BET WE ARE AT THAT.
YOU KNOW, EVERY
MAN THAT I EVER KNEW
WHO WAS GOOD
WITH A GUN AND LIVED
ALWAYS HAD AN EDGE.
SOME OF THEM WOULD
LIKE TO HAVE THE SUN
BEHIND THEIR BACK.
THAT'S ALWAYS A GOOD IDEA.
YEAH. SURE PAYS TO HAVE AN EDGE.
YEAH.
ALL KIND OF EDGES.
YEP.
HOWDY.
IS THERE SOMETHING WRONG?
NOPE.
I GUESS YOU WERE RIGHT.
I AIN'T THAT OLD AFTER ALL.
HMM.
Lone Watie: NOT MANY
MEN WEST OF HERE.
WE'RE GETTING INTO
COMANCHE COUNTRY.
WAGON TRACKS...
BUT I NEVER SEEN
TRACKS LIKE THESE.
NEVER HEARD OF COMANCHES
TRAVELING IN TWO-WHEELED CARTS.
COMANCHEROS.
COMANCHEROS...
TRADE LIQUOR AND GUNS
TO COMANCHE FOR HORSES.
TRADE WOMEN, TOO.
HOW MANY OF 'EM?
EIGHT... MAYBE NINE HORSES
AND A COUPLE OF CARTS.
THOSE POOR PILGRIMS FROM KANSAS.
DON'T LOOK TOO
PROUD NOW, DO THEY?
AAH. OH. OHH! AAH!
PLEASE.
WHY, YOU MISERABLE
SON OF A BITCH!
TEN BEARS IS GOING
TO WANT HIMSELF
A FRESH WOMAN.
FRESH, THAT GAL
BRINGS MAYBE 20 HORSES.
NOW, IF ONE OF YOU HAS TO,
TAKE THAT OLD WOMAN OVER THERE.
SHE MIGHT BE WORTH
MAYBE ONE DONKEY.
FIX YOURSELF.
MOVE FASTER!
IF YOU FALL,
THEY'LL LET YOU DIE.
KEEP WALKING.
COME AROUND HERE,
BITCH. COME AROUND HERE.
COME HERE.
NOW, YOU LISTEN TO ME.
I WANT YOU LOOKING REAL
GOOD WHEN WE GET TO TEN BEARS.
FIRST CHANCE YOU GET, I WANT
YOU TO JUMP IN THAT WAGON
AND PUT ON ONE OF
YOUR BEST LITTLE DRESSES.
HEH HEH HEH.
MIGHT BOOST YOUR PRICE.
IF YOU LOOK GOOD ENOUGH,
I MIGHT OUTBID TEN BEARS
AND TAKE YOU MYSELF.
IF I FIGURE THIS RIGHT,
WE'RE FACING THE SUN.
THIS OUGHT TO GIVE HIM AN EDGE.
OHHH...
WHO ARE YOU TALKING ABOUT?
WHAT THE HELL'S HE WANT?
LOOKS LIKE A PARLAY.
WELL, YOU GOING
TO SIT THERE ALL DAY
OR RIDE OUT AND
SEE WHAT HE WANTS?
GET READY, LITTLE LADY.
HELL IS COMING TO BREAKFAST.
THAT'S A MIGHTY NICE HORSE
YOU GOT THERE, MISTER.
WOULD YOU SELL HIM?
HA. WE WILL GIVE
YOU A GOOD PRICE.
NOW SPIT.
JUST GET OFF THE HORSE.
GET OUT OF THE WAY!
INO ME MATE!
NOW YOU'LL KILL US, I SUPPOSE.
I'D HAVE BEEN HALFWAY
TO MEXICO BY NOW
EXCEPT FOR THAT CRAZY SQUAW.
I CAN'T UNDERSTAND
A WORD SHE SAYS.
I KNEW THAT WOULD BRING YOU.
HELP US.
COMANCHES.
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO LIKE US
KILLING THESE FRIENDS OF THEIRS.
WE BETTER GET MOVING.
LOOKS LIKE A FAMILY OF HOGS
JUST MOVED OUT OF THE
SEAT OF THESE BRITCHES.
OHH, I HAD SUCH
BEAUTIFUL CLOTHES
I WAS TAKING TO OUR RANCH.
WHEREABOUTS IS THIS RANCH?
MY SON'S RANCH...
HE FOUND BEFORE THE WAR
NEAR A TOWN CALLED SANTA RIO.
CREEK WITH GOOD WATER,
TREES, CATTLE,
BLACK-TAILED DEER.
IT'S A REGULAR PARADISE
WE'RE HEADED TO.
OUT THERE?
YOUR SON TOLD YOU
THIS WAS OUT THERE?
TOLD ME THAT NEAR A
PLACE CALLED BLOOD BUTTE.
MY SON WAS TRUE BLUE, MR. WALES.
NEVER LIED.
IT'LL BE THERE, ALL RIGHT.
YES, MA'AM. I'M SURE IT WILL BE.
COTTONWOODS, LIVE OAKS,
WILD HORSES, ANTELOPE...
LOTS OF QUAIL...
YOU SEE 'EM?
WHAT?
CLOUDS. OVER THERE.
CLOUDS ARE LIKE...
DREAMS FLOATIN' ACROSS
THE SKY-BLUE MIND.
WELL, HONEY, I NEVER
THOUGHT OF THEM THAT WAY.
INDIAN,
THIS MR. WALES IS A
COLD-BLOODED KILLER.
HE'S FROM MISSOURI
WHERE THEY'RE ALL
KNOWN TO BE KILLERS
OF INNOCENT MEN,
WOMEN, AND CHILDREN.
WOULD YOU RATHER BE RIDING
WITH COMANCHEROS, GRANNY?
NO, I WOULDN'T.
Woman: ♪ I LOST MY SWEET LOVER ♪
♪ IN THAT DIRTY OLD MINE ♪
♪ BUT HE'S COMING BACK ♪
♪ NO MATTER HOW LONG I WAIT ♪
♪ MY LOVER IS COMING... ♪
WHAT WILL YOU HAVE?
WHISKEY.
HA HA. "WHISKEY," HE SAYS.
HOW ABOUT SOMETHING ELSE?
WELL, A BEER, THEN.
GET THOSE GENTS
WHATEVER THEY'RE DRINKING.
YOU, TOO, MA'AM.
THAT'S MIGHTY DECENT, MISTER.
BEEN A LONG TIME
SINCE ANYBODY BOUGHT
A DRINK AROUND HERE.
LONG TIME SINCE WE
HAD ANYTHING TO
DRINK AROUND HERE.
OR ANYTHING ELSE.
YEAH, FIRST THE SILVER
RUN OUT OF THE SANTA RIO,
THEN THE PEOPLE RUN OUT,
THEN THE WHISKEY,
THEN THE BEER RUN OUT.
WELL, NO MATTER.
IT'S GOOD TO SEE A HIGH
ROLLER WANDER THROUGH.
I DIDN'T MEAN TO OFFEND HIM.
I GUESS SOME
FELLAS JUST DON'T LIKE
TO BE CALLED HIGH ROLLERS.
I KNOWED A FELLA
HE DIDN'T LIKE TO BE
CALLED HIGH-HANDED.
WE'LL HAVE WHISKEY ALL AROUND.
COMANCHERO BRAND.
YEE-HOO!
WHOA-HO!
ANGELS OF MERCY
COME TO SANTA RIO!
THIS AIN'T SANTA RIO.
MY SON TOM TURNER SAID
IT WAS A THRIVING PLACE.
IT WAS.
WHEN THE SILVER RUN OUT,
THE THRIVIN' RUN OUT.
I DO DECLARE.
MIGHT YOU BE THE
MOTHER OF TOM TURNER
WHOSE CROOKED RIVER
RANCH IS OVER BY BLOOD BUTTE?
THAT I MIGHT, MISS.
WELL, I AM ROSE!
ROSE OF SANTA RIO!
I RECKON HE WROTE
YOU ALL ABOUT ME.
I DON'T RECOLLECT THAT.
AFTER HIS LUCY PASSED ON,
HE DIDN'T SHOW MUCH
INTEREST IN WOMEN.
MY SONNY BOY KEPT HIS
NOSE TO THE GRINDSTONE,
PROVIDING A FUTURE FOR
ME AND HIS DAUGHTER THERE.
I DO SEEM TO RECALL
HIM TELLING ME
SOMETHING ABOUT A
DAUGHTER WHO WAS...
A LITTLE ODD.
HE WAS KILLED IN THE BORDER WAR
BY MISSOURI RUFFIANS.
HE DIED A PROUD MEMBER
OF SENATOR JIM LANE'S REDLEGS,
FIGHTING FOR THE JUST CAUSE.
OH, I AM SORRY TO HEAR THAT.
HE WAS OF THE FINEST SORT.
SEñORA, PLEASE SIT DOWN.
YOU MUST BE VERY, VERY TIRED.
I AM DEEPLY
SORROWED TO HEAR THIS.
IN PAST YEARS,
MY FRIEND AND I WERE OF SERVICE
TO YOUR TOM TURNER.
AND NOW, WE ARE AT YOUR SERVICE.
WHY, I APPRECIATE YOUR CONCERN.
I AM GLAD TO FIND
MANNERS AT LAST
HERE IN THE WILDERNESS.
WE HAVE ENDURED
HARDSHIP OF THE WORST SORT
ON THE WAY OUT HERE.
GRANDPA SAMUEL AND UNCLE ENOCH
FELL PREY TO COMANCHEROS.
LET'S HAVE A DRINK
TO THE DAMN SILVER RUNNING OUT.
GAVE US SOME PEACE
AND QUIET AROUND HERE.
Man: THAT'S BAD LUCK,
THE SILVER RUNNING OUT.
I WOULDN'T HAVE ANY OTHER KIND.
WHAT'LL YOU HAVE?
I'M LOOKING FOR JOSEY WALES.
THAT'D BE ME.
YOU'RE WANTED, WALES.
I RECKON I'M RIGHT POPULAR.
YOU A BOUNTY HUNTER?
A MAN'S GOT TO DO SOMETHING
FOR A LIVING THESE DAYS.
DYING AIN'T MUCH
OF A LIVING, BOY.
YOU KNOW, THIS ISN'T NECESSARY.
YOU CAN JUST RIDE ON.
WHEW.
I HAD TO COME BACK.
I KNOW.
COMANCHE?
COMANCHES, ALL RIGHT.
ANY MORE OF THEM, YOU THINK?
I THINK THAT'S ALL THERE IS,
BUT THEY HAVE HORSES,
BUCK, AND ANTELOPE,
SO I FIGURE THEY'RE
NOT A RAIDING PARTY.
BUT YOU NEVER CAN
TELL, THESE COMANCHES.
YOU STAY WITH THE CART.
JUST LOOKING US OVER, I GUESS.
WELL, THEY'RE PACKING HEAVY.
THEY MAY RETURN.
ALL RIGHT. LET'S MOVE OUT.
IF THEY RIDE WITH TEN BEARS,
THEY WILL COME BACK.
TEN BEARS IS THE GREATEST
COMANCHE WAR CHIEF,
BUT HE'S ANGRY.
EACH YEAR HE'S MET
WITH ONE OF YOUR
BLUECOAT GENERALS.
AIN'T ONE OF MY GENERALS.
AND EACH YEAR HE IS PUSHED
FURTHER ACROSS THE PLAIN.
GENERAL SHERMAN HAS
COME WITH MORE PROMISES,
BUT TEN BEARS WILL MOVE NO MORE.
IT'S SO BEAUTIFUL!
ALL RIGHT. WE CAN GET
TO WORK DUSTING FIRST.
WE'VE GOT A NICE DUTCH
OVEN IN THE FIREPLACE.
MR. WALES,
YOU MEN CHOP SOME WOOD,
AND I'LL...
GET EVERYTHING DONE.
MR. WALES!
DID YOU COME ALL
THIS WAY TO GAWK?
YOU DON'T WORK,
YOU DON'T EAT AROUND HERE.
DIDN'T FIGURE YOU FOR A LOAFER.
YOU KNOW, SHE TOLD ME
IT'S THE FIRST TIME
SHE EVER HAD A PLACE OF HER OWN.
GRANDMA SAYS IT'S OUR HOME.
IT IS ALL OF OURS.
I'M GLAD THERE'LL
BE A MAN AROUND
TO TAKE CARE OF THINGS.
I'LL BE DROPPING BACK
FROM TIME TO TIME,
PROBABLY JUST TO HOLE UP.
WHY DON'T YOU STAY WITH US?
BE OUR PARTNER.
THEY WON'T MISS YOU.
MAYBE THEY'LL FORGET YOU.
YOU KNOW THERE
AIN'T NO FORGETTING.
Little Josey: PA!
OLE, JOSEY.
IOLE!
WE'RE GOING TO SANTA RIO.
♪ IN THE SWEET BY-AND-BY ♪
♪ WE SHALL MEET ON
THAT BEAUTIFUL SHORE ♪
♪ IN THE SWEET ♪
♪ BY-AND-BY ♪
♪ WE WILL MEET ON
THAT BEAUTIFUL SHORE ♪
♪ IN THE SWEET ♪
♪ BY-AND-BY ♪
♪ WE WILL MEET ON
THAT BEAUTIFUL SHORE ♪
LORD, THANKS A LOT
FOR BRINGING US TO THIS PLACE.
PA AND DANIEL DIED AT THE HANDS
OF THAT LOW-DOWN
MURDERING TRASH OUT OF HELL
THAT DONE THEM IN,
BUT THEY PUT UP A GOOD FIGHT
AND DIED THE BEST THEY COULD.
AND THANKS A LOT
FOR JOSEY WALES,
WHO YOU CHANGED FROM
A MURDERING BUSHWACKER
ON THE SIDE OF SATAN
TO A BETTER MAN
TRYING TO DELIVER US
FROM THE PHILISTINES.
AND THANK THE LORD
FOR GETTING US
TOGETHER IN TEXAS.
HEY, YOU ALL RIGHT?
TEN BEARS...
HE GOT TRAVIS AND CHATO.
HE'LL BE RIDING
HERE IN THE MORNING.
IF I WAS LOOKING FOR
A PLACE TO HOLE UP,
I'D PICK THIS ONE.
THE WALLS AND THE
CEILING 2 FEET THICK.
ALL MADE OF MUD,
NOTHING TO BURN.
TWO DOORS, FRONT AND BACK,
RIGHT IN SIGHT OF ONE ANOTHER.
THESE CROSSES ARE
TO FIRE RIFLES THROUGH.
UP AND DOWN, SIDE TO SIDE.
YOUR TOM TURNER
KNEW WHAT HE WAS DOING.
YOU BET HE DID.
I'LL BE SHOOTING
OUT OF THAT DOOR.
GRANNY, I'D RATHER
HAVE YOU SIT RIGHT THERE
WITH A BUCKET OF
POWDER, BALL, AND CAP,
AND DO THE LOADING.
CAN YOU DO THAT?
I CAN.
MOONLIGHT...
RIGHT UNDERNEATH THIS DOOR.
YOU FIRE THROUGH
HERE, ALL RIGHT?
LAURA LEE, RIGHT
THROUGH THIS WINDOW.
CAN YOU SHOOT A RIFLE?
I'LL TRY.
LONE, YOU TAKE THIS
WINDOW HERE AND THE DOOR,
WHEREVER THE MOST
FIRING'S COMING FROM.
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE TO KEEP
AN EYE ON THAT HALLWAY THERE
BECAUSE...
THE ONLY BLIND
SPOT IS THE CEILING.
THEY'RE GONNA GET
AROUND TO IT EVENTUALLY.
THEY CAN'T SHOOT THROUGH IT,
BUT THEY MIGHT DIG A HOLE IN IT
AND DROP DOWN, MAYBE
IN THE BACK BEDROOM.
NOW, REMEMBER,
WHEN THINGS LOOK BAD
AND IT LOOKS LIKE
YOU'RE NOT GONNA MAKE IT,
THEN YOU GOT TO GET MEAN.
I MEAN PLUMB MAD-DOG MEAN,
'CAUSE IF YOU LOSE
YOUR HEAD AND GIVE UP,
THEN YOU NEITHER LIVE NOR WIN.
THAT'S JUST THE WAY IT IS.
USE PISTOLS AT SHORT RANGE.
MORE FIREPOWER, LESS RELOADING.
KEEP THIS FIRE GOING.
KEEP AN IRON ON IT RED HOT.
ANYBODY GETS HIT, SING OUT.
WE'LL SLAP IRON TO IT.
THAT'S THE FASTEST
WAY TO STOP THE BLOOD.
WHAT'S ALL THAT PAINT ABOUT?
IT'S MY DEATH FACE.
WELL, WE'RE SURE GOING TO SHOW
THEM REDSKINS
SOMETHING TOMORROW.
NO OFFENSE MEANT.
NONE TAKEN.
WHERE'S HE GOING?
HE KNOWS HE CAN DO THE
BEST FOR US ON A HORSE.
HE'S A GUERRILLA FIGHTER.
HE FIGURES HE CAN CARRY
THE FIGHT TO THE ENEMY.
HE'S GOING INTO THE
VALLEY TO KILL TEN BEARS
AND AS MANY OF
THE MEN AS HE CAN.
HOW WILL HE DO THAT
AND COME BACK HERE?
HE WON'T COME BACK.
JOSEY!
YOU BE TEN BEARS?
I AM TEN BEARS.
I'M JOSEY WALES.
I HAVE HEARD.
YOU ARE THE GRAY RIDER.
YOU WOULD NOT MAKE
PEACE WITH THE BLUECOATS.
YOU MAY GO IN PEACE.
I RECKON NOT.
I GOT NOWHERE TO GO.
THEN YOU WILL DIE.
I CAME HERE TO DIE WITH YOU...
OR LIVE WITH YOU.
DYING AIN'T SO HARD
FOR MEN LIKE YOU AND ME.
IT'S LIVING THAT'S HARD
WHEN ALL YOU'VE EVER CARED ABOUT
HAS BEEN BUTCHERED OR RAPED.
GOVERNMENTS DON'T LIVE TOGETHER.
PEOPLE LIVE TOGETHER.
WITH GOVERNMENTS
YOU DON'T ALWAYS GET
A FAIR WORD OR A FAIR FIGHT.
I'VE COME HERE TO
GIVE YOU EITHER ONE
OR GET EITHER ONE FROM YOU.
I CAME HERE LIKE THIS
SO YOU'LL KNOW MY
WORD OF DEATH IS TRUE
AND THAT MY WORD
OF LIFE IS THEN TRUE.
THE BEAR LIVES HERE...
THE WOLF, THE ANTELOPE...
THE COMANCHE...
AND SO WILL WE,
AND WE'LL ONLY HUNT
WHAT WE NEED TO LIVE ON,
SAME AS THE COMANCHE DOES.
AND EVERY SPRING WHEN
THE GRASS TURNS GREEN
AND THE COMANCHE MOVES NORTH,
HE CAN REST HERE IN PEACE,
BUTCHER SOME OF OUR CATTLE,
AND JERK BEEF FOR THE JOURNEY.
THE SIGN OF THE COMANCHE,
THAT WILL BE ON OUR LODGE.
THAT'S MY WORD OF LIFE.
AND YOUR WORD OF DEATH?
IT'S HERE IN MY PISTOLS
AND THERE IN YOUR RIFLES.
I'M HERE FOR EITHER ONE.
THESE THINGS YOU
SAY WE WILL HAVE,
WE ALREADY HAVE.
THAT'S TRUE.
I AIN'T PROMISING
YOU NOTHING EXTRA.
I'M JUST GIVING YOU LIFE,
AND YOU'RE GIVING ME LIFE,
AND I'M SAYING THAT
MEN CAN LIVE TOGETHER
WITHOUT BUTCHERING ONE ANOTHER.
IT'S SAD THAT GOVERNMENTS
ARE CHIEFED BY THE
DOUBLE-TONGUES.
THERE IS IRON IN
YOUR WORDS OF DEATH
FOR ALL COMANCHE TO SEE,
AND SO THERE IS IRON
IN YOUR WORDS OF LIFE.
NO SIGNED PAPER
CAN HOLD THE IRON.
IT MUST COME FROM MEN.
THE WORDS OF TEN BEARS
CARRY THE SAME IRON
OF LIFE AND DEATH.
IT IS GOOD THAT
WARRIORS SUCH AS WE MEET
IN THE STRUGGLE OF LIFE...
OR DEATH.
IT SHALL BE LIFE.
SO WILL IT BE.
I RECKON SO.
I'LL BE DAMNED. LOOK AT THIS.
COME. SIT DOWN.
OH, I'M SO GLAD TO SEE YOU.
I NEVER THOUGHT
I'D SEE YOU AGAIN, GRANDMA.
OH, CHATO!
CHATO, SIT DOWN.
NEVER THOUGHT I'D BE GLAD
TO SEE ANOTHER INDIAN.
HOO!
YOO!
HEY, HEY! ALL RIGHT!
YEE-HOO!
I'VE GOT SOMETHING TO
SHOW YOU, MR. WALES.
I MADE THIS CHAIN FOR YOU.
I BRAIDED IT FROM MY HAIR.
THAT'S REAL NICE.
IT REALLY IS.
IT'S A WATCH CHAIN.
YEAH, WELL, IT'S A... NICE ONE.
IT'LL COME IN HANDY.
I THANK YOU FOR IT.
UH, YOU... YOU DO HAVE
A WATCH, DON'T YOU?
UH, WELL, I BEEN
MEANING TO GET ONE, YEAH.
COULD WE, UM, PLAY
A SONG FOR YOU?
I'M AFRAID I DON'T
KNOW TOO MANY SONGS.
COULD WE PLAY
SOMETHING YOU LIKE?
COME ON.
ONLY SONG I CAN THINK
OF IS ROSE OF ALABAMIE.
HEY, WE REMEMBER THAT OLD PIECE.
ROSIE, COME HERE.
YOU HELP.
♪ AWAY FROM MISSISSIPPI'S VALE ♪
♪ WITH MY OLD HALF
FARE FOR A SALE ♪
♪ I CROSSED UPON A COTTON BALE ♪
♪ TO THE ROSE OF ALABAMA ♪
♪ OH, BROWN ROSIE... ♪
DO YOU DANCE?
NO.
I DON'T, EITHER.
♪ A SWEET TOBACCO POSEY ♪
♪ IS THE ROSE OF ALABAMA ♪
HELP US OUT NOW.
♪ OH, BROWN ROSIE ♪
♪ THE ROSE OF ALABAMA ♪
♪ A SWEET TOBACCO POSEY ♪
♪ IS THE ROSE OF ALABAMA ♪
YA-HOO!
AH-HA!
I COULD SEE HIM RIGHT
THROUGH THIS WINDOW
WHEN HE SHOT MY PARTNER.
HE WAS TRAVELING
WITH AN OLD INJUN,
AND A SQUAW, SOME OLD LADY,
AND A SCRAWNY GIRL.
HAD TO BE HIM.
HE HAD THIS SCAR ON
HIS FACE RIGHT HERE.
I WASN'T ABOUT TO
FACE HIM DOWN ALONE.
MM-HMM.
YOU MEN GET THEM
HORSES OUT OF SIGHT!
IF JOSEY WALES COMES BACK HERE,
WE'LL BUY HIM A DRINK.
KANSAS WAS ALL...
GOLD.
IT SMELLED LIKE SUNSHINE.
YEAH.
WELL, I ALWAYS HEARD
THERE WERE THREE
KINDS OF SUNS IN KANSAS...
SUNSHINE...
SUNFLOWERS, AND...
SONS OF BITCHES.
WELL...
AT LEAST WE'RE
KNOWN FOR SOMETHING.
I HEARD A JOKE
ABOUT MISSOURI ONCE.
SOMETHING ABOUT HOW
PEOPLE FROM MISSOURI
ARE ALWAYS SAYING "SHOW ME."
DO YOU KNOW IT?
NO.
I THINK IT WAS, UM...
IF... IF...
WHAT DOES A MAN
FROM MISSOURI SAY
IF SOMEONE ASKS HIM
TO SEE A MISSOURI MULE?
AND?
HE SAYS "SHOW ME."
GET IT?
IS THAT THE KIND OF DUMB JOKES
THEY TEACH PRETTY
GIRLS IN KANSAS?
THEY TEACH OTHER THINGS.
SHOW ME.
Little Josey: PA!
YOU'RE UP KIND OF
EARLY, AREN'T YOU?
IT'S BEEN NICE RIDING
WITH YOU, CHIEF.
SAME HERE.
WHEN YOU GET TO TOWN,
GET SOME NICE DRESSES
FOR THE LADIES, HEAR?
I WILL.
GET SOMETHING ESPECIALLY NICE
FOR LAURA LEE TO WEAR
WHEN I COME BACK IN SPRING.
YEAH.
OR THE FOLLOWING SPRING.
SOMETIMES TROUBLE
JUST FOLLOWS A MAN.
HELL, I'VE BEEN HERE
WAY TOO LONG AS IT...
I RECKON SO.
JOSEY WALES!
YOU'RE ALL ALONE NOW, WALES.
NOT QUITE ALONE.
NOW WE'RE REALLY GOING TO SHOW
THESE PALEFACES SOMETHING.
NO OFFENSE.
NONE TAKEN!
THESE MEN ARE A
SLANDER TO KANSAS,
ATTACKING INNOCENT
WOMEN LIKE THIS.
JOSEY!
PA!
BULLETS WERE FLYING.
PEOPLE RUNNING EVERY WHICH WAY.
THE CHURCH BELLS WERE RINGING.
ME AND MISS ROSE WERE
DUCKING FOR COVER.
ONE DIDN'T KNOW WHERE
THE SHOTS WERE COMING...
MR. WILSON!
GOOD MORNING.
HELLO, MR. WILSON.
WE WERE JUST
TELLING THESE FELLOWS
A LITTLE STORY ABOUT AN OUTLAW
WHO PASSED THROUGH
THIS WAY A WHILE BACK.
I DON'T SUPPOSE
YOU'D KNOW ABOUT HIM.
THESE TWO FELLAS DOWN
HERE IS TEXAS RANGERS.
BEEN ON HIS TRAIL.
ALONG WITH THIS OTHER
FELLOW OVER HERE.
WHAT'D YOU SAY YOUR
NAME WAS, FRIEND?
MY NAME'S FLETCHER.
FLETCHER. THAT'S RIGHT.
MR. FLETCHER.
THE THREE OF THEM BEEN
CHASING THIS OUTLAW.
JUST SO HAPPENS, OLD TEN SPOT,
WOULDN'T YOU KNOW,
KNOWS ALL ABOUT IT.
YES, SIR.
IT WAS DOWN IN
MONTERREY, MEXICO,
A LITTLE WHILE BACK.
ANYWAYS, THIS OUTLAW FELLA,
HE WENT UP AGAINST
FIVE PISTOLEROS.
HE GOT THREE BEFORE
THEY CUT HIM DOWN.
THAT RIGHT, MISS ROSE?
THAT'S RIGHT.
HIS NAME WAS, UH...
JOSEY WALES.
THAT'S IT.
WELL, IF THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED,
THEN, UH, JOSEY
WALES MUST BE DEAD.
Rose: OH, HE IS DEAD.
HE SURE IS DEAD.
DEAD, ALL RIGHT.
WOULD YOU SIGN THIS AFFIDAVIT?
UH, SIGN?
WHY, SURE WILL.
THAT'S IT.
NICE SEEING YOU, MR. WILSON.
THERE MUST BE 5,000 WANTED MEN
IN TEXAS RIGHT NOW.
CAN'T GET 'EM ALL.
YEAH, I GUESS THAT'S THE TRUTH.
IF YOU'RE BACK
THIS WAY, STOP IN.
I RECKON WE WON'T BE
COMING BACK THIS WAY.
I DON'T BELIEVE THAT
STORY ABOUT JOSEY WALES.
YOU DON'T?
NO, SIR, I DON'T.
I DON'T BELIEVE
NO FIVE PISTOLEROS
COULD DO IN JOSEY WALES.
MAYBE IT WAS SIX.
COULD HAVE EVEN BEEN 10.
I THINK HE'S STILL ALIVE.
ALIVE?
UH, NO, SIR.
I THINK I'LL GO DOWN TO MEXICO
TO TRY TO FIND HIM.
AND THEN?
HE'S GOT THE FIRST MOVE.
I OWE HIM THAT.
I THINK I'LL TRY TO TELL
HIM THE WAR IS OVER.
WHAT DO YOU SAY, MR. WILSON?
I RECKON SO.
I GUESS WE ALL DIED A LITTLE
IN THAT DAMN WAR.
CAPTIONING MADE
POSSIBLE BY WARNER BROS.
CAPTIONED BY THE NATIONAL
CAPTIONING INSTITUTE www.ncicap.org...